A Docker container is a replacement for a VM 
Servers in data center are expensive! 
Chuck goes and gets his. 
On a server, you install an OS on the hardware. All the servers resources are for that one OS has CPU, RAM, hardrive on it. May be Linux or Windows. 
You want Linux and Windows? Buy two servers!  $$$$$$$
But now you can use a hypervisor to manage two OS on your server through virtualization 
Hypervisor has one goal- divide your server resources into multiple servers. 
VMWare ESXI (Elastic Sky X. In September 2004, the replacement for ESX was internally called VMvisor, but later changed to ESXi (as the "i" in ESXi stood for "integrated"))
Takes a portion of the server resources and divides it up between OS 
Ubuntu get 1 CPU,  2 GB (RAM), 100GB(hardrive space )
Windows16 1 CPU, 2GB (RAM), 40GB(hardrive space)
Keep doing that until server out of resources 
But DOcker doesn't do that!
When we use Docker containers, it takes us to before virtualization. Docker gives us access to everything a server can do 
VM's virtualize the hardware, Docker virtualizes the OS! 
                        Old way:
                windows Ubuntu debian   <-os sits on hypervisor
                Hypervisor (VMWare) 
                Hardware 

                        Docker 
                windows   centOS    Ubuntu (containers have many OS)
                Docker Engine (virtualizes OS to make containers)
                Ubuntu
                Hardware
Docker installs like any other app we may install, it'll be a process running. Then using Docker, we virtualize parts of our OS to make containers. These containers do pretty much the same thing as a VM. Many of the same qualities. 
Containers, like VM's, can run a different OS. 
Containers are crazy fast, lightweight micro computers. Why
Docker containers have their own:
OS
CPU 
Memory 
Network  
Think of containers are quarantined, you can picture them as installed on a bare metal server, that's how isolated they are! 
These are lightweight and WICKED fast!! 
